# Fox_Analysis
The Institute for Cytology and Genetics of the Russian Academy of Sciences in Novosibirsk, Russia has been studying the domestication of silver foxes (Vulpes vulpes) since 1959. Two lines of foxes have been bred: a tame line selected for favorable response toward humans and an aggressive line, started in 1970, selected for a hostile response to humans. Illumina-RNA sequencing was performed on the cortex of 12 aggressive and 12 tame foxes and on the forebrain of 11 aggressive and 11 tame foxes. The 46 read-count samples for 12,808 and 13,809 genes in the prefrontal cortex and forebrain respectively were analysed with RNA-seq, k-means clustering, and principal component analysis to determine which genes play a role in the phenotypic changes between the two groups. Gene ontology analysis was performed on the genes of interest to understand the physiological changes brought on by differential gene expression levels in the different foxes. 149 genes in the cortex and 18 genes in the forebrain were differentially expressed between the two groups. The significant genes have been implicated in neural crest cells development pathways, strengthening the hypothesis of their fundamental role in domestication syndrome, as well as in the serotonergic and dopaminergic pathways for reward and learning which reinforces positive trainer-fox relationships in the tame foxes. Determining the specific genes implicated in the domestication of animals can improve and simplify the domestication process by pinpointing essential genes for which to selectively breed.  
The RNA-seq data was obtained through GEO under accession no. GSE76517.
